.\"
.\"	txt2pdbdoc -- Text-to-Doc converter for Palm Pilots
.\"	doc.4
.\"
.\"	Copyright (C) 1998-2015  Paul J. Lucas
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" define code-start macro
.de cS
.sp
.nf
.RS 5
.ft CW
.ta .5i 1i 1.5i 2i 2.5i 3i 3.5i 4i 4.5i 5i 5.5i
..
.\" define code-end macro
.de cE
.ft 1
.RE
.fi
.sp
..
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH \f3DOC\f1 4 "August 15, 2015" "txt2pdbdoc"
.SH NAME
Doc (Pilot standard text document) file format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft CW
struct doc_record0 {            // 16 bytes total
    Word  version;              // 1 = plain text, 2 = compressed text
    Word  reserved1;
    DWord doc_size;             // uncompressed size in bytes
    Word  num_recs;             // not counting itself
    Word  rec_size;             // in bytes: usually 4096 (4K)
    DWord reserved2;
};
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B Doc
file format is the standard text document format
used by all models of the Palm Pilot.
A
.B Doc
file is a
.BR pdb (4)
file: this manual page describes only those aspects specific to
.B Doc
files.
.PP
A
.B Doc
file consists of 0 to \f(CWnum_recs\f1 records;
record 0 is the header for the document.
(This header is distinct from the
.BR pdb (4)
header.)
The remaining records contain text,
either plain or compressed depending upon \f(CWversion\f1.
.SS Word Sizes
In the synopsis above, the types \f(CWWord\f1 and \f(CWDWord\f1
are used just as in the Pilot headers.
The type \f(CWWord\f1 is 16 bits;
the type \f(CWDWord\f1 is 32 bits.
Both are in big-endian format.
.SS Compression Format
A character ``\f(CWc\f1'' in a compressed record is in one of four classes:
.TP 10
\f(CW01-08\f1
Copy ``\f(CWc\f1'' bytes
.TP
\f(CW00,09-7F\f1
Self
.TP
\f(CW80-BF\f1
Sequence
.TP
\f(CWC0-FF\f1
A space plus the ASCII character \f(CWc ^ 0x80\f1
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR txt2pdbdoc (1),
.BR pdb (4)
.PP
Christopher Bey and Kathleen Dupre.
.IR "Palm File Format Specification" ,
Document Number 3008-003,
Palm, Inc.,
May 16, 2000.
.SH AUTHOR
Paul J. Lucas
.RI < paul@lucasmail.org >
