.\"
.\"	txt2pdbdoc Text-to-Doc converter for Palm Pilots
.\"	pdb.4
.\"
.\"	Copyright (C) 1998  Paul J. Lucas
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" define code-start macro
.de cS
.sp
.nf
.RS 5
.ft CW
.ta .5i 1i 1.5i 2i 2.5i 3i 3.5i 4i 4.5i 5i 5.5i
..
.\" define code-end macro
.de cE
.ft 1
.RE
.fi
.sp
..
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH \f3PDB\f1 4 "August 15, 2015" "txt2pdbdoc"
.SH NAME
PDB (Pilot Database) file format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft CW
#define dmDBNameLength 32       /* 31 chars + 1 NULL terminator */

struct pdb_header {             // 78 bytes total
    char  name[ dmDBNameLength ];
    Word  attributes;
    Word  version;
    DWord create_time;
    DWord modify_time;
    DWord backup_time;
    DWord modificationNumber;
    DWord appInfoID;
    DWord sortInfoID;
    char  type[4];
    char  creator[4];
    DWord id_seed;
    DWord nextRecordList;
    Word  numRecords;
};
.P
struct pdb_rec_header {         // 8 bytes total
    DWord offset;
    struct {
        unsigned delete   : 1;
        unsigned dirty    : 1;
        unsigned busy     : 1;
        unsigned secret   : 1;
        unsigned category : 4;
    } attributes;
    char uniqueID[3];
};
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The PDB (Pilot Database) file format is used by all models
of Palm Pilots and IBM Workpad.
The format consists of a header followed by a set of record headers
followed by the records themselves.
.SS Word Sizes
In the synopsis above, the types
\f(CWByte\f1,
\f(CWWord\f1, and \f(CWDWord\f1
are used just as in the Pilot headers.
The type \f(CWByte\f1 is 8 bits;
\f(CWWord\f1 is 16 bits;
\f(CWDWord\f1 is 32 bits.
The latter two are in big-endian format.
.SH CAVEAT
The C structures given in the synopsis above are illustrative
and may not work in actual C code
since compilers align data members on word boundaries.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR txt2pdbdoc (1),
.BR doc (4)
.SH AUTHOR
Paul J. Lucas
.RI < paul@lucasmail.org >
