.\"
.\"	Doc Text to HTML file converter for Palm Pilots
.\"	html2pdbtxt.1
.\"
.\"	Copyright (C) 1998  Paul J. Lucas
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" define code-start macro
.de cS
.sp
.nf
.RS 5
.ft CW
.ta .5i 1i 1.5i 2i 2.5i 3i 3.5i 4i 4.5i 5i 5.5i
..
.\" define code-end macro
.de cE
.ft 1
.RE
.fi
.sp
..
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.tr ~
.TH \f3html2pdbtxt\fP 1 "August 16, 2015" "html2pdbtxt"
.SH NAME
html2pdbtxt \- HTML to Doc Text converter for Palm Pilots
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B html2pdbtxt
.RB [ \-b "\f2 chars\fP" ]
.RB [ \-t "\f2 title\fP" ]
.RB [ \-u "\f2 URL\fP" ]
.I file.html
.RI [ file.txt ]
.br
.B html2pdbtxt \-v
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B html2pdbtxt
converts HTML to text suitable for conversion to a
.BR Doc (4)
file via
.BR txt2pdbdoc (1).
If no text filename is given, the generated text is sent to standard output.
.SS HTML Tags
The following HTML tags (and corresponding ending tags) are recognized:
\f(CWADDRESS\fP,
\f(CWA~NAME\fP,
\f(CWBLOCKQUOTE\fP,
\f(CWBR\fP,
\f(CWCENTER\fP,
\f(CWDIV\fP,
\f(CWDL\fP,
\f(CWDT\fP,
\f(CWH1\fP, \f(CWH2\fP, \f(CWH3\fP, \f(CWH4\fP, \f(CWH5\fP, \f(CWH6\fP,
\f(CWOL\fP,
\f(CWOPTION\fP,
\f(CWPRE\fP,
\f(CWP\fP,
\f(CWSELECT\fP,
\f(CWSCRIPT\fP,
\f(CWSTYLE\fP,
\f(CWTABLE\fP,
\f(CWTITLE\fP,
\f(CWUL\fP.
In all cases, the most ``reasonable'' thing is done given the constraints
of the
.BR Doc (4)
format which is essentially plain text.
\f(CWALT\fP attributes (typically found in \g(CWIMG\fP tags)
have their text extracted and placed between brackets
\f(CW[\fPlike this\f(CW]\fP.
All other HTML tags are stripped.
.SS Character Entities
Both HTML character and numeric (decimal and hexadecimal) entity references
are converted to their byte value
according to the ISO 8859-1 (Latin 1) character set
so they appear properly on the Pilot.
For example, ``r&eacute;sum&#233;'' becomes ``resume''
with accented letter 'e's.
.SS Document Title
Unless specified with the
.B \-t
option, the HTML file is scanned for \f(CW<TITLE>\fP ... \f(CW</TITLE>\fP tags
and, if found, the title is extracted and put on line 1 of the generated file.
.SS Bookmarks
Bookmarks are placed into the generated file
wherever \f(CW<A~NAME="...">\fP tags are found in the HTML file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.BI \-b " chars"
Specify the character sequence that is to serve as the bookmark indicator.
The default is \f(CW(*)\fP.
(See the CAVEATS.)
.TP
.BI \-t " title"
Specify the title of the document that is to appear on line 1
of the generated file overriding any title found inside the HTML file
between \f(CW<TITLE>\fP ... \f(CW</TITLE>\fP tags.
.TP
.BI \-u " url"
Specify the URL the HTML file supposedly came from
and put it on the line after the title, if any, in the generated file.
.TP
.B \-v
Print the version number to standard output and exit.
.SH EXAMPLE
To convert an HTML file to Doc:
.cS
html2pdbtxt -u http://www.wonderland.org/ alice.html alice.txt
txt2pdbdoc `head -1 alice.txt` alice.txt alice.pdb
.cE
.SH CAVEATS
.TP 4
1.
Some Doc readers have a ``feature'' whereby,
during the scan for bookmarks phase,
they recognize the bookmark sequence of characters
.B anywhere
in the text and not just at the beginning of a line.
.TP
2.
Some Doc readers do not allow the bookmark sequence to contain the \f(CW>\fP
character since they interpret that as the sequence delimiter, e.g.,
\f(CW<->>\fP will be interpreted as the sequence being merely \f(CW-\fP.
.TP
3.
Ordered lists (via the \f(CWOL\fP tag) are treated as unordered lists
(like the \f(CWUL\fP tag) because it would greatly complicate the code
since it would have to be parsed
rather than simple substitutions being performed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pdbtxt2html (1),
.BR txt2pdbdoc (1),
.BR doc (4)
.PP
International Standards Organization.
``ISO 8859-1: Information Processing
-- 8-bit single-byte coded graphic character sets
-- Part 1: Latin alphabet No. 1.''
1987.
.PP
World Wide Web Consortium.
``Character entity references in HTML 4.0.''
.I HTML 4.0 Specification,
http://www.w3.org/
.SH AUTHOR
Paul J. Lucas
.RI < paul@lucasmail.org >
