.\"
.\"	txt2pdbdoc -- Text to Doc file converter for Palm Pilots
.\"	pdbdump.1
.\"
.\"	Copyright (C) 2001-2015  Paul J. Lucas
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" define code-start macro
.de cS
.sp
.nf
.RS 5
.ft CW
.ta .5i 1i 1.5i 2i 2.5i 3i 3.5i 4i 4.5i 5i 5.5i
..
.\" define code-end macro
.de cE
.ft 1
.RE
.fi
.sp
..
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH \f3pdbdump\fP 1 "August 23, 2015" "txt2pdbdoc"
.SH NAME
pdbdump \- PDB (Palm Database file) dumper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdbdump
.RB [ \-dh ]
.I file.pdb
.br
.B pdbdump
.B \-V
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pdbdump
dumps a
.BR pdb (4)
(Pilot Database)
file used by all models of the Palm Pilot
to standard output.
PDB files are sequences of records.
For each record,
.B pdbdump
dumps its header information
as well as the payload data
in both hexedecimal and ASCII.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Dumps only the payload data.
.TP
.B \-h
Dumps only the header information.
.TP
.B \-V
Prints the version number of
.B pdbdump
to standard error and exits.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PD 0
.IP 0
Success.
.IP 1
Error in command-line options or use.
.IP 2
Out of memory.
.IP 10
Open file error.
.IP 11
Read error.
.IP 12
Write error.
.IP 13
Seek error.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR txt2pdbdoc (1),
.BR doc (4),
.BR pdb (4)
.SH AUTHOR
Paul J. Lucas
.RI < paul@lucasmail.org >
