.\"
.\"	Doc Text to HTML file converter for Palm Pilots
.\"	pdbtxt2html.1
.\"
.\"	Copyright (C) 1998  Paul J. Lucas
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" define code-start macro
.de cS
.sp
.nf
.RS 5
.ft CW
.ta .5i 1i 1.5i 2i 2.5i 3i 3.5i 4i 4.5i 5i 5.5i
..
.\" define code-end macro
.de cE
.ft 1
.RE
.fi
.sp
..
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH \f3pdbtxt2html\fP 1 "August 16, 2015" "txt2pdbdoc"
.SH NAME
pdbtxt2html \- Doc Text to HTML converter for Palm Pilots
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdbtxt2html
.RB [ \-t ]
.I file.txt
.RI [ file.html ]
.br
.B pdbtxt2html \-v
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pdbtxt2html
converts text converted from a
.BR Doc (4)
file via
.BR txt2pdbdoc (1)
to HTML.
If no HTML filename is given, the generated HTML is sent to standard output.
.SS Document Title
The first line of the file is used for the HTML document title.
.SS Bookmarks
The last line of the file is examined and, if it contains a string enclosed
between \f(CW<\f1 and \f(CW>\f1, that is taken to be the bookmark marker.
The entire file is then scanned looking for lines beginning with it
(ignoring leading whitespace).
These lines are converted to HTML headings.
.PP
The number of whitespace characters after the first bookmark marker
is used for heading level 1.
The level of subsequent headings is set to the number of whitespace
characters between the bookmark marker and the bookmark text
minus the number for the first bookmark plus one.
.SS Embedded URLs
Valid URLs (according to RFC 1630) embedded in the text
are turned into hyperlinks.
The
\f(CWftp\f1,
\f(CWgopher\f1,
\f(CWhttp\f1,
\f(CWhttps\f1,
\f(CWmailto\f1,
\f(CWnews\f1,
\f(CWtelnet\f1,
and
\f(CWwais\f1
URLs are recognized.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B \-t
Compile a table of contents
and insert it between the first heading and the body.
.TP
.B \-v
Print the version number to standard output and exit.
.SH EXAMPLE
To convert a Doc file to HTML:
.cS
txt2pdbdoc alice.pdb alice.txt
pdbtxt2html alice.txt alice.html
.cE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR html2pdbtxt (1),
.BR txt2pdbdoc (1),
.BR doc (4)
.PP
Tim Berners Lee.
.I Universal Resource Identifiers in WWW,
Network Working Group of the Internet Engineering Task Force,
June 1994.
.RS 5
http://info.internet.isi.edu/in-notes/rfc/files/rfc1630.txt
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Paul J. Lucas
.RI < paul@lucasmail.org >
