.\"
.\"	Text to Doc file converter for Palm Pilots
.\"	txt2pdbdoc.1
.\"
.\"	Copyright (C) 1998  Paul J. Lucas
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" define code-start macro
.de cS
.sp
.nf
.RS 5
.ft CW
.ta .5i 1i 1.5i 2i 2.5i 3i 3.5i 4i 4.5i 5i 5.5i
..
.\" define code-end macro
.de cE
.ft 1
.RE
.fi
.sp
..
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH \f3txt2pdbdoc\fP 1 "August 16, 2015" "txt2pdbdoc"
.SH NAME
txt2pdbdoc \- Text to Doc file converter for Palm Pilots
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B txt2pdbdoc
.RB [ \-bctvw ]
.I document-name
.I file.txt
.I file.pdb
.br
.B txt2pdbdoc
.B \-d
.RB [ \-Dvw ]
.I file.pdb
.RI [ file.txt ]
.br
.B txt2pdbdoc
.B \-V
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B txt2pdbdoc
converts a plain text file to a
.BR Doc (4)
file in PDB (Pilot Database) format
used by all models of the Palm Pilot.
(It can also convert a Doc file to plain text.)
Resultant PDB files can be downloaded directly to a Pilot during a HotSync.
.P
The
.I document-name
is used in the Document List view of a Doc reader application on the Pilot.
.SH OPTIONS
An option argument
.I n
means
.IR "unsigned integer" .
If
.I n
starts with either
.B 0x
or
.BR 0X,
then
.I n
is interpreted as hexedecimal.
.TP
.B \-b
Ordinarily,
characters non-printable (binary) characters
are stripped
and both carriage-returns and form-feeds are converted to newlines.
This option suppresses that behavior.
.TP
.B \-c
Ordinarily,
generated Doc files are compressed.
This option suppresses compression.
.TP
.B \-d
Decodes the given Doc file to text
either to a file or to standard output if no file is specified.
.TP
.B \-D
Does not check the file type/creator of the Doc file to decode.
This option should be specified
.I only
if you know for
.I sure
that the file is in fact some sort of Doc file.
Attempting to decode non-Doc files
will result in undefined behavior.
.TP
.B \-t
Ordinarily,
the current time is embedded within generated Doc files
as their creation and modification times.
This option suppresses that behavior
and sets both to zero instead.
.TP
.BI \-U " n"
There are six characters used in the PalmOS character set
that do not map to Unicode.
Ordinarily,
if these characters are encountered while decoding a Doc file,
they are stripped.
.TP
.B ""
This option specifies the Unicode code-point
.I n
to substitute for all unmappable characters.
As additional special cases,
the code-point can also be specified
as either a single character
or either a \f(CWU+\fP or \f(CWu+\fP
followed by a hexedecimal integer.
.TP
.B \-v
Enables verbose output.
For encoding, print progress and compression statistics per 4K of text
to standard error as well as overall statistics when completed;
for decoding, print progress in a ``countdown'' style.
.TP
.B \-V
Prints the version number of
.B txt2pdbdoc
to standard error and exits.
.TP
.B \-w
Suppresses warnings about either
incompatibilties mapping between PalmOS and Unicode characters
or unexpected characters.
.SH EXAMPLE
To convert a text file to Doc file:
.cS
txt2pdbdoc 'Through the Looking Glass' alice.txt alice.pdb
.cE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PD 0
.IP 0
Success.
.IP 1
Error in command-line options or use.
.IP 2
Out of memory.
.IP 10
Open file error.
.IP 11
Read error.
.IP 12
Write error.
.IP 13
Seek error.
.IP 14
.B stat
error.
.IP 20
File is not a Doc file.
.IP 21
Doc file uses unknown compression type.
.PD
.SH CAVEATS
.TP 4
1.
Document names are limited to 31 characters in PDB format.
Longer names are truncated but have the 29-31st characters replaced
by ``\f(CW...\fP'' to indicate truncation.
.TP
2.
The command isn't called ``txt2doc'' to avoid confusion about possibly having
anything to do with Microsoft Word documents that use the \f(CW.doc\f1
extension.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR html2pdbtxt (1),
.BR pdbtxt2html (1),
.BR doc (4),
.BR pdb (4)
.SH AUTHOR
Paul J. Lucas
.RI < pauljlucas@mac.com >
